Delvers
Each player character (or Delver) in Heart is made 
up of an ancestry, class and a calling.
Ancestries
Delvers  are  generally  of  one  of  four  common  
ancestries: drow, or dark elves; aelfir, or high elves; 
humans, and gnolls. 
Although the different people of the world are at 
one another’s throats in the city of Spire, the Heart 
is a great leveller in social and racial terms, as it 
erodes  many  of  the  privileges  of  infrastructure  
and  power  that  oppressors  rely  on  to  maintain  
control over the oppressed. It’s not uncommon to 
see folk from different ancestries within the same 
adventuring party.
There are no mechanical differences between 
ancestries; however, there are plenty of cultural 
differences. You’re free to choose whichever 
ancestry best fits your character 
and your story.
CHARACTER GENERATION  
STEP-BY-STEP
1. Select an ancestry for your character.
2. Choose a calling and record the  
granted ability.
3. Choose a class and record all of  
its core abilities.
4. Select one major and three minor abilities 
from your class.
5. Choose equipment.
6. Select two beats for your first session.
7. Answer the questions from your calling.
8. Add finishing details.

Delvers
12
CALLINGS
Your calling is your reason for venturing into the 
nightmare  undercity,  the  obsession  that  keeps  
you  pushing  deeper  into  the  Heart  in  search  of  
something intensely valuable to you. Understand 
this: you are not a normal person. Normal people 
don’t  give  up  their  lives  and  willingly  walk  into  
terrifying labyrinths in the hope that they might 
find what they’re looking for.
The majority of a character’s calling is made up 
of beats – events, challenges, goals or situations 
that, when the character experiences them, allow 
advancement and an increase in power. There are 
five callings available:
Adventure: Bored of a life on the surface, you seek 
a knife-edge life of danger and excitement where 
laws, both social and scientific, no longer apply. 
Enlightenment: You want to achieve something 
impossible;   you   know   that   the   Heart   holds   
fragments of the knowledge you need to pull it off. 
Forced: You don’t want to be in the Heart, but your 
masters are blackmailing or coercing you into 
it. You follow their orders as best you’re able. 
Heartsong: Years of mysterious dreams where a 
red wet heaven glistens beneath you have lead 
you to the cursed labyrinth of the City Beneath 
in search of greater truths. 
Penitent: You were part of an order; you let them 
down, and people paid the price for it. Now you 
seek atonement through self-sacrifice.
You’re free to choose any calling you like. Having 
every character in the party pick the same calling can 
lead to an interesting and very focused campaign. 
CHARACTER ADVANCEMENT
Each calling is made up of a core ability (which 
you acquire when you take the calling at character 
generation) and several beats, which are split up 
into minor, major and zenith levels. These beats 
can be thought of as goals, achievements or scenes 
that shape your character’s story. When you hit 
them, you can choose a new advance from your 
class.  Minor  beats  earn  you  a  minor  advance;  
major beats earn you a major advance; and zenith 
beats  unlock  zenith  abilities,  the  most  potent  
options available to your character. You can only 
use each beat a single time – cross it off once you’ve 
achieved it.
At the end of each session (and before the first 
one begins) each player chooses two beats from the 
list provided in their calling and tells the GM what 
they are. It’s the GM’s responsibility to introduce 
elements in the following session that allow players 
to  pursue  their  chosen  beats,  and  the  players’  
responsibility to push the story towards achieving 
them. Minor beats can usually be fulfilled in a 
single session, major beats can take between two 
and three to properly achieve, and zenith abilities 
are generally selected to signal the beginning of the 
end-game for the character and as the culmination 
of multiple sessions of play.
(If you’d like to mix it up, have the other players 
and the GM choose one of your beats for you; this 
means they can indicate what sort of thing they ’d 
like to see your character do, you can be rewarded 
for doing it, and they ’ll be more invested in the 
story that unfolds.)
NEGATIVE BEATSNEGATIVE BEATS
Not all of the beats listed in the callings are things that characters would want to happen; Not all of the beats listed in the callings are things that characters would want to happen; 
for example, a lot of them deal with suffering fallout. Think of it this way: when you’re for example, a lot of them deal with suffering fallout. Think of it this way: when you’re 
selecting beats at the end of the session, you’re not doing so as your character. Instead, selecting beats at the end of the session, you’re not doing so as your character. Instead, 
you’re indicating what you’d like to see happen to your character, and acting as a director you’re indicating what you’d like to see happen to your character, and acting as a director 
of their story rather than piloting them through it. of their story rather than piloting them through it. 
Your character doesn’t know that they have beats, much in the same way that they Your character doesn’t know that they have beats, much in the same way that they 
don’t know that their sword does D6 damage or that they have 5 stress marked against don’t know that their sword does D6 damage or that they have 5 stress marked against 
their their BloodBlood resistance. They’re a mechanical concern that feeds into the story, not  resistance. They’re a mechanical concern that feeds into the story, not 
something your character is aspiring to.something your character is aspiring to.

13
CALLINGS
GM: feel free to be blunt with establishing these 
details. There’s no need to be coy about it – the 
players have explicitly told you what they want to 
happen, and the world of Heart means that they ’re 
descending into a parasite reality that can respond 
to their deepest desires.
Players: feel free to ask questions and establish 
facts. For example, if one of your beats requires 
you to meet an NPC who hates you, and the GM 
introduces an NPC, you’re completely within your 
rights to ask: “Is this the guy that hates me?” It 
makes telling stories easier for the GM and ties 
the narrative together.
You can only have two beats “active” at any one 
time. You cannot hit more than a single beat in 
any given situation (if both apply, pick the one 
that’s most relevant.) As you cannot activate more 
beats before the start of the next session, you can 
only  achieve  two  beats  per  
session.
MAKING YOUR OWN CALLINGS
The  five  callings  in  this  book  (Adventure, 
Enlightenment, Forced, Heartsong   and   
Penitent) form a decent basis for personal growth 
on an adventure, but you are encouraged to tweak, 
reskin and reflavour them so they’ll be a better fit 
for your campaign.
For   example,   if   you   wanted   to   make   a   
character who was obsessively seeking revenge  
against  someone  who  wronged  them  in  the  
past,  you  could  take  the  Enlightenment  calling  
and  replace  the  bits  that  refer  to  the  occult  or  
academics with vigilantism and uncovering the 
villain’s network of agents. 
If  you  want  to  seed  details  of  later  events  in  
the game, you can add beats that refer to specific 
events,  people  or  places.  For  example:  you’re  
fascinated by the Huntress (p.  212) and want 
to use her in your game. You could add beats like 
“find evidence of the Huntress’ machinations” 
or “meet an NPC who’s seen the Huntress first 
hand” as minors, all the way up to “escape from 
the Huntress once she’s got your scent” as a major. 
Even if you haven’t really got a firm idea of what 
it is, putting in the minor beat “Set foot inside the 
Blind Library ” sets your players up with a mystery 
to explore right off the bat.
You’ve  got  a  great  deal  of  freedom  to  create  
personalised beats for your campaign; take some 
chances  with  it,  and  see  what  works  for  your  
group.

Delvers
14
CLASSES
Your class is the reason you’re not dead yet. You 
are a capable person; maybe not a sane or sensible 
one, but you can handle yourself. Your class gives 
you access to abilities that let you affect the world 
around you or resist misfortune. When you achieve 
beats  from  your  calling,  you’ll  gain  an  advance  
from your class at the appropriate level.
Upon selecting a class you automatically gain 
every  related  core  ability.  Each  class  has  a  few  
Zenith abilities: these are the ultimate expression 
of the class, and they ’re not the sort of power that 
you can sustain in an ongoing campaign. They also 
mark the end of the character’s progression as they 
achieve their goal.
Once  a  player  unlocks  a  zenith  advance,  the  
GM should make it clear that they have only one 
or two games remaining before 
they  should  retire  their  
character. 
Most of the zenith abilities have this baked in; 
activating them retires the character in exchange 
for a burst of tremendous power.
Here are the classes in this book:
Cleaver: A shapeshifting hunter who consumes 
the flesh of their prey – or anything they can get 
their hands on, really – to gain power. 
Deadwalker:  A  Deadwalker  has  stared  into  
the  face  of  death  and  come  out  triumphant,  
and they ’re accompanied by a spectre of their 
demise. They use their half-dead spirit to break 