EXPLORATION                                                           103
Running the game 108
SPECIFIC TIPS FOR RUNNING HEART 113
LANDMARKS & DELVES 124
IN CLOSING 129
THE WORLD OF HEART 131
GENERAL SOCIETY 131
THE HEART ITSELF 136
LANDMARKS                               140
LANDMARKS BY TIER  142
ADVERSARIES                             183
LEGENDARY ADVERSARIES 208
Appendices                               215
RULES SUMMARY 215
The Map 216
Suggested media 217
THANKS TO: 217
INDEX                                                                         218
Character Sheet 219

 
iv

Introduction
1
Introduction
What is Heart?
Heart  is  a  game  about  damnation,  redemption,  
survival  and  obsession,  set  in  the  Heart  –  the  
nightmare,   unreal   labyrinth   that   pulses   and   
writhes beneath the city of Spire. It’s also a game 
about body horror, walls made of breathing meat, 
and  exploring  a  possibly-malevolent  parasite  
dimension.  It’s  also  a  game  about  dungeon-
crawling,  at  the  base  of  it:  we  wanted  to  take  
the classic story of descending into a dangerous 
underworld and see what twist we could put on it.
The Heart is a realm of infinite possibility 
that  reforms  itself  anew  with  each  generation  
that explore it, and it can contain most anything 
you  can  imagine.  Your  Heart,  the  one  that  you  
create  with  the  rest  of  your  gaming  group,  will  
be distinct from every other; there is no map to 
constrain you save the ones you make yourselves. 
As the delvers venture through the City Beneath, 
the  gamesmaster  forms  it  around  them  into  
something great, and terrifying, and personal. 
You  will  not  be  playing  normal  people.  Your  
characters are strange, broken people, obsessed 
with finding something – freedom, redemption, 
truth, impossible magicks, excitement – and have 
sheltered  together  for  companionship.  In  the  
endless passageways of the Heart, they can find 
it – at the cost of their sanity, or their preconceived 
notions of reality, or their flesh and blood, or 
whatever they had left in them that made them a 
person, rather than a beast.  
Horror and Wonder
Heart is a horror game. It focuses on: body horror, 
which  is  the  fear  of  your  body  being  changed  
by  foreign  entities  against  your  will;  existential  
horror,  which  is  the  fear  of  your  deeply-held  
convictions being proved false; monster horror, 
which  features  all  kinds  of  horrible  creatures;  
and  violent  horror,  where  there  are  gruesome  
consequences for engaging in combat.
It’s not all horror; there’s wonder too, as the City 
Beneath reveals strangenesses to the delvers as they 
make their way through it. There’s camaderie and 
togetherness; there’s adventure, and excitement; 
there’s the sense of establishing order over chaos. 
But, at the root of it, this is a game about upsetting 
things; of unstable people going into a malevolent 
parasite  reality  in  search  of  answers  they  will  
probably not find. It is tragic, and ironic, and fun 
in a gallows humour sort of way.
Character death is not only a possibility, but a 
likelihood; as you amass injuries and misfortunes, 
the end will come for your character. It is your job 
as  a  player  to  make  exciting  choices,  push  your  
character into dangerous situations, and do your 
level best to have a good death.
Although the subject matter of Heart is often 
grim  and  gruesome,  the  game  itself  isn’t  and  
shouldn’t be upsetting to play. People run and play 
horror games for all sorts of reasons – for fun, to 
explore  subjects  and  experiences  they  wouldn’t  
have in real life, to bond and to tell engaging stories 
about people. Running Heart is not about grossing 
people out or pushing them outside their comfort 
zone for no reason. It’s about finding stories 
that meet those needs for your players, creating 
an  environment  that  feels  safe  and  supportive  
in which to explore the inhuman and horrifying 
themes, and pacing the game so that your players 
have fun.
If you’re familiar with Spire, our previous 
game in the same universe, you’ll notice 
that Heart  shares  a  lot  with  it.  It  uses  a  
modified version of the resistance system 
that  powers  Spire  and  takes  place  directly  
beneath the eponymous city. Each book can 
inform  the  other  when  it  comes  to  setting  
and  inspiration,  but  Heart  is  a  completely  
standalone  game.  You  don’t  need  to  know  
anything about Spire to play it.

Introduction
2
Safety Tools
It’s always a good idea to have some safety tools in 
place to make sure that everyone is having a great 
time, especially with horror games. We considered 
putting these suggestions in the GM section, but 
because they ’re so important, we instead put them 
here where everyone can see them.
Firstly, before play starts, the GM should ask the 
players to share their Lines and Veils. A Line is a topic 
or action that the player doesn’t want to be included 
in the game at all. A Veil is a topic or action that the 
player is okay with including in the game as long as 
its description is vague. Once people have outlined 
their lines and veils, it’s up to the other players to 
respect them and not include them in the game.
However, not everyone wants to reveal a list of 
things that make them uncomfortable – especially if 
they ’re playing a game with strangers. In these cases, 
we also recommend that the GM places a card with 
an “X” written on it in the centre of the table: the X 
Card (by John Stavropoulos). If anyone (GM included) 
is uncomfortable with something that occurs in the 
game, they should touch the X Card and the group 
should  stop  pursuing  the  upsetting  element  and  
replace it with something else. The person who 
touched the X Card is under no obligation to explain 
why the topic upsets them if they don’t want to. 
There is a wide variety of other safety tools available 
online, so we recommend that you research them to 
work out which is the best for you and your group.
The World of Heart
The Heart is a dangerous, unpredictable, mad 
place.  Located  beneath  the  mile-high  city  of  
Spire in the land of Destera, it is a rip in the holes 
between worlds.
The Heart begins, in theory, in the undercity 
of   Spire   near   the   tumbledown   settlement   of   
Derelictus.  Get  out  of  earshot  of  the  sing-song  
gangs of street children, leave behind the tenements 
and shanties, crawl deep into the forsaken bowels 
of the city and you’ll reach the Heart.
The Heart ends, in theory, nowhere. The closer 
one gets to its centre, the less stable reality becomes. 
In the midst of its red wet nightmare, concepts such 
as “beginning” and “end” come undone. 
There  are  settlements  on  the  outskirts: 
heretic  churches  worshipping  forbidden  gods;  
organised criminals guarding the drug farms and 
laboratories that supply Spire; cults of magicians 
who  whisper  to  buried  inhuman  intelligences;  
in short, people who have turned their backs on 
the city above and delved into the Heart in search 
of answers. There are caves and buildings and 
the echoes of infrastructure that crumbled into 
uselessness centuries ago.
A WORD FROM CHRIS AND GRANTA WORD FROM CHRIS AND GRANT
Hello. This is coming straight from us to you, gamesmaster.
You’re going to make this game up as you go along. The book you’re about to read is 
a list of suggestions and props for you to use. Everyone’s game will be recognisably 
Heart
, 
but their version of the City Beneath will be unique. This is intentional: we’ve baked it into the 
rules and fiction from the word go. Inside, you’ll find a world that builds itself around the player 
characters as they explore. You’ll note that this is how pretty much every roleplaying game works 
when you sit down to play, but we wanted to make it part of the setting too.
We don’t have a canonical Heart; we both run it differently. Chris’ Heart is organic, a choking 
warren of quartz and teeth and blood and death, and people are few and far between. Grant’s 
Heart is urban, a place of desperate survival built on the ruins of those who have failed before, 
and comes with high ceilings, alien skies and rushing breezes. 
So: use what you want to, throw out what you don’t like and create your own stuff. Stitch it 
together into a horrid patchwork of obsession and misfortune and tragedy and wonder. If you’re 
not sure about a setting element, make something up and run with it; there aren’t any right 
or wrong answers. Your Heart is supposed to be different from everyone else’s. 
What you’re reading is just the start. Go mess it up and make 
it yours.

3
Introduction
Go deeper, and the Heart makes less sense (to a rational mind, at least). Here there are crimson 
labyrinths ruled by the ghosts of slaughtered beasts; acres of high-rise buildings with swarms of spectres 
haunting the lower floors and people scraping out an existence huddled on the rooftops; twisting market-
warrens of red cloth, cobblestones and awnings where maniac serfs worship their god-king masters 
and chant their financial transactions like sacred mantras. 
Deeper still, and the Heart is almost unrestrained. There are skies here – blasted skies that have never 
held the sun or stars. There are lakes of dust where villages perch atop stilts and people hunt shark-
headed beasts with harpoons. There are forests, moon-lit by no moon, where the trees are utterly mad 
and will hunt.
Beneath that? The Heart Itself, a blossoming tear in reality, a parasite universe of blood and bone 
seeping into the world of man and elf. 
The Heart can taste and smell you, and it makes itself anew in your image. The settlements are 
there because people believe they should be: they are expectations repeated and made 
real, scars carved into the meat of the City Beneath by invaders. But go off 
the beaten path, tread into the unknown, and the Heart will grow 
invisibly, silently, just outside of your view. It listens 
to  your  dreams  and  fashions  your  reward,  your  
punishment, your world, from roiling quintessence. 
This is the Heart, and you know that somewhere 
down here is what you need. 

Introduction
4
WHAT IS THE HEART?
There are a wide variety of theories as to what the 
Heart is; no-one’s quite sure. The following ideas 
are postulated by academics in the Cities Above 
and Below.
AMENABLE ESCHATON
The Heart is an extra-dimensional force that wants 
to expand and absorb all life on the planet, turning 
it into genetic copies or offshoots of itself. It’s a 
benevolent grey goo and is doing this because it 
thinks it’s best for the world and the people in it. 
It is as intelligent as a child and a mushroom at 
the same time.
It  can  copy  the  thoughts  and  memories  of  
people who come in, so it’s attempting to make 
itself... approachable? comfortable? – for life. It’s 
copying aelfir and drow and owls and towns and 
social structures, but building them out of what it 
has to hand: meat, stone and time. It is iterating, 
trying to define what the optimum form is. 
Spire was built to contain it by... someone? It’s 
unclear. It used to work but now it doesn’t, and the 
Heart is spreading through the city. Derelictus is 
stable because there are lots of people there, so it 
can copy what they expect to see and what they ’ve 
seen; the deeper you get, the less sense it makes.
INQUISITIVE GOD-COCOON 
The Heart is a godling of tremendous power – easily 
equal to the Damnou or the Solar Pantheon – and 
the Spire is a cocoon into which it will swell and 
eventually hatch. When it hatches, it will remake 
the cosmos. When you enter into the Heart, you’re 
stepping into raw cosmic DNA soup, and reality 
doesn’t make sense any more. It has all the building 
blocks to construct an entire universe, but they ’re 
just sloshing around down there.
It’s not perfect; far from it. When you go into 
the Heart, it solidifies itself around you, trying 
to desperately latch onto whatever reality might 
be. It is trying to learn from you what a reality is. 
Crucially, it wants to keep you down here as an 
experiment – a lab-rat in a maze.
XENOCHRONISTIC TERRAFORMER
The Heart, like all other prokatakos arcologies 
on the planet, is from the future. Someone built 
them (and Spire) to make sure that the planet was 
habitable,  and  sent  them  back  through  time  to  
ensure that their civilisation would happen. (But: 
it had already happened. But: that’s because they 
sent the terraformers.) 
Spire is responsible for atmosphere generation; 
the other arcologies were for water, basic lifeforms, 
etc. They’re the only reason that there’s life on the 
planet, and they ’re using the Heart as a fuel source 
for whatever tool the Spire is. (The Heart is raw... 
stuff.) Every arcology has a Heart of some kind, but 
the others are better protected; also, no-one tried 
to build a mass transit network in them. 
When the high elves built the Vermissian, they 
essentially drilled a hole into a microwave oven, 
turned it on and then stared point-blank through 
the hole. The Heart isn’t meant  to  be  like  this;  it’s  
uncontained world radiation bleeding out into a 
reality that isn’t ready for it without being properly 
filtered. Which means, presumably, you can fix it.
Eventually, the Prokatakos will evolve and they ’ll 
exist again. Or: for a first time?
Or, Alternatively:
 EThe Heart is a giant slumbering creature, and 
the areas within are its dreams; 
 EThe Heart is an engine, powering an unknowable 
world-machine; 
 EThe Heart is the mass of worldstuff at the centre 
of the planet, and the planet is dying; 
 EThe Heart is the manifestation of the sins of the 
people in Spire; 
 EThe Heart is Not A Place Of Honour – it is 
ancient magical runoff, buried aeons ago, and 
the container is cracking; 
 EThe Heart is the artistic masterpiece of a secret 
society of several thousand aelfir; 
 EThe Heart is reality’s womb that lures  tortured 
souls to their annihilation and rebirth.
 EThe Heart is the root of all magic, and all the 
cults, religions and occult orders have got it very 
wrong indeed.

Introduction