COMBAT                                                                       82
FALLOUT                                                                      84
RESOURCES & EQUIPMENT 93
BONDS                                                                        102
EXPLORATION                                                           103
Running the game 108
SPECIFIC TIPS FOR RUNNING HEART 113
LANDMARKS & DELVES 124
IN CLOSING 129
THE WORLD OF HEART 131
GENERAL SOCIETY 131
THE HEART ITSELF 136
LANDMARKS                               140
LANDMARKS BY TIER  142
ADVERSARIES                             183
LEGENDARY ADVERSARIES 208
Appendices                               215
RULES SUMMARY 215
The Map 216
Suggested media 217
THANKS TO: 217
INDEX                                                                         218
Character Sheet 219

 
iv

Introduction
1
Introduction
What is Heart?
Heart  is  a  game  about  damnation,  redemption,  
survival  and  obsession,  set  in  the  Heart  –  the  
nightmare,   unreal   labyrinth   that   pulses   and   
writhes beneath the city of Spire. It’s also a game 
about body horror, walls made of breathing meat, 
and  exploring  a  possibly-malevolent  parasite  
dimension.  It’s  also  a  game  about  dungeon-
crawling,  at  the  base  of  it:  we  wanted  to  take  
the classic story of descending into a dangerous 
underworld and see what twist we could put on it.
The Heart is a realm of infinite possibility 
that  reforms  itself  anew  with  each  generation  
that explore it, and it can contain most anything 
you  can  imagine.  Your  Heart,  the  one  that  you  
create  with  the  rest  of  your  gaming  group,  will  
be distinct from every other; there is no map to 
constrain you save the ones you make yourselves. 
As the delvers venture through the City Beneath, 
the  gamesmaster  forms  it  around  them  into  
something great, and terrifying, and personal. 
You  will  not  be  playing  normal  people.  Your  
characters are strange, broken people, obsessed 
with finding something – freedom, redemption, 
truth, impossible magicks, excitement – and have 
sheltered  together  for  companionship.  In  the  
endless passageways of the Heart, they can find 
it – at the cost of their sanity, or their preconceived 
notions of reality, or their flesh and blood, or 
whatever they had left in them that made them a 
person, rather than a beast.  
Horror and Wonder
Heart is a horror game. It focuses on: body horror, 
which  is  the  fear  of  your  body  being  changed  
by  foreign  entities  against  your  will;  existential  
horror,  which  is  the  fear  of  your  deeply-held  
convictions being proved false; monster horror, 
which  features  all  kinds  of  horrible  creatures;  
and  violent  horror,  where  there  are  gruesome  
consequences for engaging in combat.
It’s not all horror; there’s wonder too, as the City 
Beneath reveals strangenesses to the delvers as they 
make their way through it. There’s camaderie and 
togetherness; there’s adventure, and excitement; 
there’s the sense of establishing order over chaos. 
But, at the root of it, this is a game about upsetting 
things; of unstable people going into a malevolent 
parasite  reality  in  search  of  answers  they  will  
probably not find. It is tragic, and ironic, and fun 
in a gallows humour sort of way.
Character death is not only a possibility, but a 
likelihood; as you amass injuries and misfortunes, 